= How to run the Java Demo=
Shaopeng Jia, Match 8th, 2011

==About this document==
This document explains how to build and run the demo of the Java version of libphonenumber, *from the command line* on *Linux* or *Mac*, using Google App Engine. By following the instructions here, you can build a demo running against any revision of the Java code by supplying a jar file you build on your own, or downloading one from the [http://code.google.com/p/libphonenumber/downloads/list Downloads page].

==Detailed steps for non-Eclipse users==
===1. Installing Google App Engine===
Follow the section "Getting the SDK" from [http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/gettingstarted/installing.html instructions] to install the Java SDK of Google App Engine. This document assumes it is named as appengine-java-sdk (you may want to rename the directory after unpacking).

===2. Checkout the demo code===
Check out the Java code if you haven't already done so:

{{{
svn checkout http://libphonenumber.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/java/ libphonenumber-read-only
}}}

Place the java directory next to the unpacked appengine sdk directory. 

If you save the appengine sdk directory in a different place, you will need to update `java/demo/build.xml` to point to the right location.

===3. Get the jars for the phone number library===

The `libphonenumber` and `offline-geocoder` jars need to be saved under `demo/war/WEB-INF/lib/`.

You can either download them from the [http://code.google.com/p/libphonenumber/downloads/list Downloads page], or you can build them yourself:

{{{
svn checkout http://libphonenumber.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/java libphonenumber-read-only
cd java
ant jar
}}}

===4. Run the demo code ===

Start the server:
{{{
cd demo
ant runserver
}}}
This will start a server on your localhost, and you can try it out by pointing your browser to http://localhost:8080/

===Troubleshooting===

If you get a warning from App Engine to ask you to upgrade your JRE to Java 1.6 or later, you might need to install Java 1.6 and point your JAVA_HOME to it. To see your current JAVA_HOME, use
{{{
echo $JAVA_HOME 
}}}
To see the list of JDKs currently installed, use
{{{
update-java-alternatives -l
}}}
To reset the `JAVA_HOME`, use
{{{
export JAVA_HOME=[path to Java 1.6 SDK]/jre
}}}
Now you should be able to use `ant runserver` to start the server on your localhost. 

===Uploading your own demo App Engine application===

In case you want to upload the demo to your own App Engine application, follow the steps to [http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/java/gettingstarted/uploading.html register a application with App Engine] first. Then type the following command:
{{{
../appengine-java-sdk/bin/appcfg.sh update war
}}}
The demo will then be uploaded to `http://application-id.appspot.com/`